1️⃣ Question:
In a transaction, if I perform multiple updates and an error happens in the third statement, but I have not used SAVEPOINT, what will happen if I issue a ROLLBACK?
Will my first two updates persist?

Answer:

No, without savepoint we are not able to update the first two updates using rollback.

2️⃣ Question:
Suppose Transaction A updates Alice’s balance but does not commit. Can Transaction B read the new balance if the isolation level is set to READ COMMITTED?

Answer:

No, The Transaction B will not able to read the updated alice's account balance with committing under the isolation level of READ COMMITTED.

3️⃣ Question:
What will happen if two concurrent transactions both execute:
UPDATE tbl_bank_accounts SET balance = balance - 100 WHERE account_name = 'Alice';
at the same time? Will one overwrite the other?

Answer:

No, It will not overwrite because in PostgreSQL transaction is done by row-level locks. so the second transaction waits until the first transaction to commit or rollback.

4️⃣ Question:
If I issue ROLLBACK TO SAVEPOINT after_alice;, will it only undo changes made after the savepoint or everything?

Answer:

If we are using a rollback upto the saveopoint defined then the changes made after the savepoint will be undo.

5️⃣ Question:
Which isolation level in PostgreSQL prevents phantom reads?

Answer:

Serializable isolation level prevents phantom reads.


6️⃣ Question:
Can Postgres perform a dirty read (reading uncommitted data from another transaction)?

Answer:

No, PostgreSQL does not allow dirty reads, even under the lowest read committed isolation.

7️⃣ Question:
If autocommit is ON (default in Postgres), and I execute an UPDATE, is it safe to assume the change is immediately committed?

Answer:

Yes, the change is immediately committed after the statement executed. only if we are executing the statement with transactions then we need to manually commit the changes by using commit.

8️⃣ Question:
If I do this:

BEGIN;
UPDATE accounts SET balance = balance - 500 WHERE id = 1;
-- (No COMMIT yet)
And from another session, I run:

SELECT balance FROM accounts WHERE id = 1;
Will the second session see the deducted balance?

Answer:

No, the second session will see the undeducted balance. uncommitted changes are only visible with the particular sessions.